## Contents ##

- [Main page](https://github.com/Abbysssal/RogueLibs)
- **1. Getting started**
- 2\. Adding custom content
  - [2.1. Custom Names](./2.1.%20Custom%20Names.md)
  - [2.2. Custom Unlocks](./2.2.%20Custom%20Unlocks.md)
  - [2.3. Custom Mutators](./2.3.%20Custom%20Mutators.md)
  - [2.4. Custom Items](./2.4.%20Custom%20Items.md)
  - [2.5. Custom Abilities](./2.5.%20Custom%20Abilities.md)
  - [2.6. Custom Traits](./2.6.%20Custom%20Traits.md)
- 3\. Additional tools
  - [3.1. RoguePatcher](./3.1.%20RoguePatcher.md)
  - [3.2. RogueUtilities](./3.2.%20RogueUtilities.md)

## Creating a new project ##
First of all, you need to download and install [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads) and [BepInEx](https://github.com/BepInEx/BepInEx/releases/latest).

Then open Visual Studio and create a new project using template "C# Class Library (.NET Framework)" and set the project's target framework version to ".NET Framework 3.5".

Now we need to import assemblies that we will be using. Go to your solution's folder and create "Libraries" folder.

Then go to the Streets of Rogue's root directory, find these DLLs and put them in the newly created "Libraries" folder:
- BepInEx.dll
- UnityEngine.dll
- UnityEngine.CoreModule.dll
- RogueLibs.dll
- Assembly-CSharp.dll *(that's where the game code is located)*
- 0Harmony.dll *(in case you want to do patching without RogueLibs)*

Now go to Visual Studio. In Solution explorer find your solution and right-click on "Dependencies" item and select "Add Reference...".

In the Reference Manager click the "Browse..." button, select the DLLs in the "Libraries" folder and click "Add". Then click "OK" to close the Reference Manager.

## Writing a basic plug-in ##
Now open the source file, add all necessary usings and write a new class inheriting from `BaseUnityPlugin`. Then add the `BepInPlugin` attribute to the class. *I recommend putting your plug-in's GUID, name and version as constant strings in the class, this way they are more accessible.* And add the `BepInDependency` attribute too, because we don't want your mod to load before RogueLibs does. Your code should look like this:
```cs
using BepInEx;
using RogueLibsCore;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using UnityEngine;

namespace Example
{
    [BepInPlugin(pluginGuid, pluginName, pluginVersion)]
    [BepInDependency(RogueLibs.pluginGuid, "2.0.0")]
    public class ExamplePlugin : BaseUnityPlugin
    {
        public const string pluginGuid = "username.streetsofrogue.example";
        public const string pluginName = "Example Plugin";
        public const string pluginVersion = "0.1.0";

        public void Awake()
        {
            Logger.LogInfo("Hello World!");
        }
        
    }
}
```
And also, use [semantic versioning](https://semver.org).