// table of contents

## `InvDatabase` Extensions ##

```cs
public static T AddItem<T>(int count) where T : CustomItem;
public static T GetItem<T>() where T : CustomItem;
```

So, yeah, just use these methods.

```cs
JokeBook book = Inventory.AddItem<JokeBook>(5);
VoodooDoll doll = Inventory.GetItem<VoodooDoll>();
if (doll != null) { ... }
```

## `InventoryEvents` ##

`InventoryEvents` class is used to raise and subscribe to inventory events, like using an item, combining items, targeting an item and etc.

You can get the `InventoryEvents` instance associated with an inventory with `GetEvents()` extension method:

```cs
InvDatabase inv = ...;
InventoryEvents events = inv.GetEvents();
```

You can subscribe to these events:

```cs
events.OnItemUsed += Events_OnItemUsed;
...
public void Events_OnItemUsed(OnItemUsedArgs e) { ... }
```

There's also a global instance of `InventoryEvents` that handles **all** events:

```cs
public static InventoryChecks InventoryChecks.Global { get; }
```

## Inventory Checks ##

So, instead of adding your own checks like this:

```cs
if (Owner.statusEffects.hasTrait("BloodRestoresHealth"))
{
    Owner.SayDialogue("WontEatThis");
    return;
}
if (Owner.statusEffects.hasTrait("OilRestoresHealth"))
{
    Owner.SayDialogue("WontEatThis");
    return;
}
if (Owner.health == Owner.maxHealth)
{
    Owner.SayDialogue("NoImFull");
    return;
}
...
```

RogueLibs allows you to make universal checks, that will work on all items that meet a certain criteria (for example, have an "Alcohol" category).

These inventory checks also implement some usual stuff, that modders sometimes forget to implement. For example, removing an item from the inventory or stopping the interaction, when the item's count reaches 0.

The inventory checks can be ignored with `IgnoreChecksAttribute`:

```cs
[IgnoreCheck("Ghost", "OnlyOil")]
public void UseItem() { ... }
```

#### How does this work? ####

Every time something is going to happen, RogueLibs raises a static event in `InventoryEvents`:

```cs
public static event RogueEventHandler<OnItemUsedArgs> OnItemUseCheck;
public static event RogueEventHandler<OnItemsCombinedArgs> OnItemsCombineCheck;
public static event RogueEventHandler<OnItemTargetedArgs> OnItemTargetCheck;
```

`RogueEventArgs` (parameter type used by `RogueEventHandler<T>`) has two interesting boolean properties: `Handled` and `Cancel`. If you set `Handled` to `true`, then all other event handlers will be ignored. If you set `Cancel` to `true`, the action that was going to happen will be cancelled.

Here's how a simple inventory check works:

```cs
InventoryEvents.OnItemUseCheck += e =>
{
    // if it's a custom item, checks if it ignores this check
    CustomItem custom = e.Item.GetHook<CustomItem>();
    if (custom?.ItemInfo.IgnoreChecks_UseItem.Contains("OnlyBlood") == true) return;

    // if the current situation meets certain criteria
    if (e.User.statusEffects.hasTrait("BloodRestoresHealth") && e.Item.itemType == "Food"
        && (e.Item.Categories.Contains("Food")|| e.Item.Categories.Contains("Alcohol")))
    {
        // do something to indicate why the item cannot be used
        e.User.SayDialogue("OnlyBloodGivesHealth");
        GameController.gameController.audioHandler.Play(e.User, "CantDo");
        // and set Handled and Cancel to true
        e.Handled = true;
        e.Cancel = true;
    }
};
```

## RogueLibs' Inventory Checks ##

#### `UseItem` Checks ####

Name | Criteria | Dialogue
:--- |:-------- |:--------
`Ghost` | Player is a ghost. | -
`CantInteract` | Player has "Pea-Brained" trait and the item's type is **not** Food. | "???" or "GRRRRRRRR!!!!!"
`OnlyOil` | Player has "Oil Reliant" trait and the item's type is Food and it has Food or Alcohol category. | "I'm gonna need some oil..."
`OnlyBlood` | Player has "Jugularious" trait and the item's type is Food and it has Food or Alcohol category. | "Ew gross, I'm not putting that in my mouth!"
`OnlyBloodMedicine` | Player has "Jugularious" trait and the item's type is Consumable and it has Health category. | "Modern medicine is for humans, I want BLOOD!"
`OnlyCharge` | Player is electronic and the item's type is Food and it has Food category. | "I don't exactly have a stomach."
`OnlyHumanFlesh` | Player has "Strict Cannibal" trait and the item's type is Food and it has Food category. | "Ew gross, I'm not putting that in my mouth!"
`HealthFull` | Player's health is at full and the item's type is either (Food and has Food or Alcohol category), or (Consumable and has Health category). | "No need, I'm feelin' good!"

#### `CombineFilter` ####

Name | Criteria | What will happen
:--- |:-------- |:----------------
`StackItems` | Items have the same name | They will be stacked together

#### `CombineItems` ####

Name | Criteria | What will happen
:--- |:-------- |:----------------
`StopOnZero` | The current item has 0 count, or is no longer in the inventory | Interaction/combining will be stopped

#### `CombineTooltip` ####

Name | Criteria | What will happen
:--- |:-------- |:----------------
`CombineFilter` | `CombineFilter` method returned `false` for the item | The tooltip will be empty

#### `TargetFilter` ####

Name | Criteria | What will happen
:--- |:-------- |:----------------
`Distance` | The target object is over 15 units away | `false`
`ButlerBot` | The target is a Butler Bot | `false`
`EmptyMech` | The target is an Empty Mech | `false`

#### `TargetObject` ####

Name | Criteria | What will happen
:--- |:-------- |:----------------
`StopOnZero` | The current item has 0 count, or is no longer in the inventory | Interaction/targeting will be stopped

#### `TargetTooltip` ####

None.